Ascribed type of a value clarification (#42)
MicrosoftDocs/query-docs: query-languages/m/m-spec-types.md

## Ascribed type of a value

A value's _ascribed type_ is the type to which a value is _declared_ to conform. 

A value may be ascribed a type using the library function `Value.ReplaceType`. This function either returns a new value with the type ascribed or raises an error if the new type is incompatible with the value.

When a value is ascribed a type, only a limited conformance check occurs:

> * The type being ascribed must be non-abstract, not nullable and compatible with the value's intrinsic (native) _primitive-type_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The type being ascribed must be non-abstract, non-nullable, and compatible with the value's intrinsic (native) _primitive-type_.
```

* When a custom type that defines structure is ascribed, it must match the structure of the value.

>   * For records: The type must be closed, must define the same number of fields as the value and must not contain any optional fields. (The type's field names and field types will replace those currently associated with the record. However, field types will not be checked.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * For records: The type must be closed, must define the same number of fields as the value, and must not contain any optional fields. (The type's field names and field types will replace those currently associated with the record. However, existing field values will not be checked against the new types.)
```

Reviewer: It doesn't look like this was applied?

>   * For tables: The type must define the same number of columns as the value. (The type's column names and column types will replace those currently associated with the table. However, column types will not be checked.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * For tables: The type must define the same number of columns as the value. (The type's column names and column types will replace those currently associated with the table. However, existing column values will not be checked against the new types.)
```

Author: I like how this edit clearly states the behavior. Thanks!

  * For functions: The type must define the same number of required parameters, as well as the same number of optional parameters, as the value. (However, parameter names, parameter types and the function return type are not checked.)

>   * For lists: As a list type always defines exactly one item type, any list type is structurally compatible with all list values.

Author: No. Trying to say that, since a list's structure is always defined by exactly and only a single item type, any two list types will always be structurally compatible, as both are intrinsically guaranteed to have a single item type. 

Is the revision I just made any clearer?

>   * For lists: As a list type always defines exactly one item type, any list type is structurally compatible with all list values.

Reviewer: I think I understand what you're getting at now, but it seems like trying to explain that might be more confusing than helpful.

When a value is ascribed a type, only a limited conformance check occurs:
* The type being ascribed must be non-abstract, not nullable and compatible with the value's intrinsic (native) _primitive-type_.
* When a custom type that defines structure is ascribed, it must match the structure of the value.

>   * For records: The type must be closed, must define the same number of fields as the value and must not contain any optional fields. (However, field types are not checked.)

Reviewer: Instead of a separate section, what about something like the following (based on what you had a few commits ago):

```suggestion
  * For records: The type must be closed, must define the same number of fields as the value, and must not contain any optional fields. (However, field names and field types are not checked and will override any existing values that differ.)
```

Reviewer: (The same pattern would apply to the other types as well.)

Author: Revisions made. How do they look to you?

Reviewer: Suggested some changes.

Author: Thanks! All changes committed.

When a value is ascribed a type, only a limited conformance check occurs:
* The type being ascribed must be non-abstract, not nullable and compatible with the value's intrinsic (native) _primitive-type_.
* When a custom type is being ascribed, it must match in structure with the value.

>   * For records: The type must be closed, must define the same number of fields as the value and must not contain any optional fields. (However, field names and field types are not checked.)

Reviewer: Per https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/punctuation/commas:

```suggestion
  * For records: The type must be closed, must define the same number of fields as the value, and must not contain any optional fields. (However, field names and field types are not checked.)
```

  * For tables: The type must define the same number of columns as the value. (However, column names and column types are not checked.)
  * For functions: The type must define the same number of required parameters, as well as the same number of optional parameters, as the value. (However, parameter names, parameter types and the function return type are not checked.)

>   * For lists: Unlike records, tables and functions, which can vary in their structure, a list's structure is always defined by a single item type, so a given list type is always structurally compatible with all other list types. (However, the item type is not checked during ascription.)

Reviewer: I'm still not entirely sure what you're getting at here. Even with a single item type, wouldn't "type {text}" (a list type with an item type of text) be different than "type {number}"? Isn't it really that there's no way to specify the item type, and thus a list type always implicitly has an item type of "any"?

Reviewer: What about this?

```suggestion
  * For lists: The value must be a list. (However, the item type is not checked during ascription.)
```

Author: Thanks!

Reviewer: If you like the proposed change, commit it and then I can sign off.

Author: Well, a previous bullet already says that the type being ascribed must match the value's native type, so it might be nice not to indirectly repeat that here by saying that list values must be ascribed list types.

I just tried rewording the the rules for custom types. Do you like the new wording better?

Reviewer: I think separating the info about record/table/function into two different sections is more confusing than helpful.

Author: Returned to one list. 

However, removed the notes about column/field/param names not being checked, as this implies that those names have no effect (which is incorrect). Instead, added a paragraph + example about how the mashup engine applies those child names during ascription (i.e. as renames).
